SLOW-COOKED SPICY HOT CHICKEN CURRY
 

PREP TIME
10 mins
COOK TIME
4 hours
TOTAL TIME
4 hours 10 mins
 
A simple made-from-scratch curry, slow cooked to intensify the heat and flavour.
Author: Nicky @ Kitchensanctuary.com
Recipe type: Dinner
Serves: 4 servings
INGREDIENTS
1 tbsp. vegetable oil
1 large onion, peeled and chopped
3 chicken breasts (boneless and skinless) diced
3 cloves garlic, peeled and minced
1 large piece of ginger (about the size of your thumb), peeled and finely chopped
1 tsp salt
½ tsp ground black pepper
3 tsp hot chilli powder (use less or mild chilli if you don’t like your curry too hot)
1 tbsp ground coriander (cilantro)
½ tbsp cumin
1 tbsp curry powder
1 tsp paprika
1 tsp cinnamon
240ml (1 cup) chicken stock (water plus a stock cube - or bouillon for gluten free - is fine)
1 x 400g (14oz) can chopped tomatoes
2 tbsp tomato puree
2 tsp sugar (this is to counteract the acidity in the tomatoes)
1 x 400ml (14-oz) can full-fat coconut milk
To serve:
Rice, chopped coriander (cilantro) and finely chopped chillies


INSTRUCTIONS


Preheat your slow cooker to high. Heat the oil in a large pan (or the insert of your slow-cooker if it can go on the hob), add in the onion and cook on a medium heat for 5-6 minutes until softened.
Add the chicken and cook for 3-4 minutes until just sealed.
Add in the garlic, ginger, salt, pepper, chilli powder, ground coriander (cilantro), cumin, curry powder, paprika and cinnamon.
Stir to coat the chicken and cook for 1-2 minutes.
Add in the stock, tinned tomatoes, tomato puree, sugar and coconut milk.
Stir, bring to a gently bubble then pour into your slow cooker and cook for 3-4 hours on high or 5-6 hours on low.
Take the lid off and give everything a stir (the oils will have risen to the top, so you can spoon most of it out, or just stir it back in). Sprinkle with coriander (cilantro) and serve with rice.
NOTES
If you want to cook this in the oven, preheat it to 150c/300f. Place a lid on the pan at step 6, and cook in the oven for 2-3 hours - check and stir once or twice during cooking.
 